Hello and welcome back to the course on artificial intelligence.
Today we are finally talking about cute learning.
All right.
So we've already got this equation the Belmont equation which we've added lots of components to we've
got the reward here which can be not just at the very end but it can be at any given step.
We've got the discount factor.
We've got the probability because now we're looking at Markov Decision Processes.
And here we've got the probability of ending up in different states regardless of what action we take
or actually given the action we take there can be multiple states that we can help end up in and then
we've got the value of the next states because he was kind of like a recursive function and so on.
But you probably still have one question.
The question is where in all of this is the letter Q Why is it all called Q learning.
So whereas the Q and that's the question that we're going to be answering today.
So far we've been dealing with values the value of being in a certain state.
And now we're going to look at how Q fits into all of that as well.
So here we've got two examples on the left is what we've be doing so far.
Our agent has been analyzing okay.
I'm over here.
This is a mark of decision process so doesn't matter how I got here the rest of the environment doesn't
care of the steps that it took me to get here from now on the I have to make the optimal decision where
to go.
Here here here.
Based on the current state and all the future states that come from here but not from the past.
And so he can see that there's three options.
There's state one state to state three and based on his experience he has calculated the values in these
states and now he's going to using the Belmont equation.
So even though this is a stochastic process so he knows that he'll go here.
But there's a chance that he'll go left or right and so on so based on these values going to make a
decision that's what we've been do so far and that is totally the legitimate approach here.
But now we're going to modify it a little bit.
We're going to take this same exact concept same exact problem but here instead of looking at the values
of each state that he can end up in we're going to look at the values or the value of each action.
So we're we're not going to use the letter V anymore because views for the value of the state we're
going to use Q And the way you might have a question why the letter Q well.
Q Some people speculate that Q Well I read this I think on Quora somebody mentioned that Q is because
of quality but at the same time I couldn't find any other references to that so it might not be because
of that might just because that's the letter that was used at the time and now it became super popular
because it's all called Q learning because of that.
So no exact reason why hold Q but nevertheless this helps us distinguish between V and Q so.
Q here represents a rather than the value of the state it represents let's go off quality it represents
the quality of the action reserve represents.
Okay so I've got four actions.
What are the different qualities of these actually what what is the or the value of the action or the
quality of the action which action is more lucrative.
So I need a metric telling me all right how do I quantify this action and then I can compare them and
that is exactly what Q is.
And so here he got four possible actions as always go up right left or down and based on the action
there's gonna be a formula which tells us the quantifiable value of that action which we're calling
the Q The Q value of that action.
So let's have a look at how we're going to derive this formula for Q What how does it actually relate
to these.
Because as you can imagine because actions lead to states there has to be some sort of link between
the two.
Right we've got we've very determined how to color calculate this and we're pretty good at it.
We know how to use the Belmont equation in very different environments with lots of different complications.
Well let's leverage that knowledge to understand how we can now calculate.
Q In order to make the same predictions because as you imagine the investor environment doesn't change
depending depending on what approach we use the environment is going to be the same regardless.
So therefore this approach and this approach should always give the same result and therefore that's
another reason why these two should be linked.
So let's have a look.
So here's our view approach where we're just going to look at the value of any given state this state
or any other state.
And here we're going to we're just using the letter as here because that's the current state.
And so therefore the terminology will be the same in both equations.
And here we're using q essay.
Q Is the of the state s and the action.
A because action is up but in which state do we perform that action we performed that action in the
state.
S OK so now we're going to ride out the Belmont equation for the first approach.
As you can see here we've got the of s so the value of any given state s is the maximum of the reward
that you get so maximum bet.
Based on the actions we have three in this case actually have four actions so maximum out of all the
possible actions of this park which we've already discussed many times.
So this is our reward that we get from performing that action in that state.
Plus a discount in fact multiplied by the expected value of the new state that we're going to be in
an expected value because it is a stochastic process we don't know exactly for sure that we're going
to end up over here we might end up on the left or the right with a certain probability.
That's why these probabilities are in here.
All right.
So that's our value.
And now let's look at Q So Q is going to be defined.
We're going to use this to define Q So let's say the agent from this location from this state perform
the action up.
What is the Q value going to be equal to.
Well first of all let's see what will get in return for performing this action up first thing that you'll
get is a reward right.
That knows no doubt about it.
There's going to be some sort of reward might be zero.
But we know that the whole this the way this reinforcement learning process works is that sometimes
for performing certain actions from a given state there's a reward.
So we're gonna add that in here and then we're going to add what we're going to add.
Well let's think about it.
What is the next thing that happens after he's gone.
Well next thing that happens is that now the agent is in a certain state.
He could end up here with a 80 percent probability or some probability but actually you can up here
or here but wherever he ends up now there's.
We already have a quantified metric for that state he's in and that is actually the value of that state.
But because he can up in many different states in three of the possible different states we have to
look at the expected value of the state that he'll be in.
And so we're going to add that in we're going to add of course discount and factor as we previously
had because that is somewhere in the future.
And then we're going to add the sum of across all possible states across all possible states that he
could end up by taking this action times a probability.
So what we're saying here is that OK.
So by performing an action you going to get a reward plus which is a quantified metric plus you're going
to get you end up in a state we don't know which one it could be here it could be here it could be here
but here is the expected value of the state that you're going to end up in.
And now we're going to multiply by discounting factor because that is one move away.
So that is our cue value for this for performance action and what you will notice here right away is
that Q The Q value is actually exactly identical to what's inside these brackets over here.
And why is that.
Well if you think about it here we're taking the maximum of the result we will get the maximum across
all possible actions.
So we've got four actions that we're taking the maximum across all possible actions of the result that
we'll get by taking each of those actions.
And in Q We're defining interesting what will we get by taking a certain action.
So if you think about it it makes sense that the value of a state.
So for instance this state is the maximum of all of the possible Q values right.
So here in the States by being in the state the agent has one key value to Cuba value 3Q value for Q
value.
So yes positive for possible Q values while the value of the state it makes sense that the value of
the state is the maximum of all of those four Q values.
That is exactly what we can see here.
That's a good confirmation of this new formula that we derived.
If that wasn't the case if that if that did match up then we would have questions would be like So why
why doesn't it matter.
Why doesn't it match up if Q value is a quantified metric of performing an action and V depends on the
for is like is the maximum of the possible results of the four actions that he can perform over that
makes sense and that confirms the formula that we've just arrived.
And now we're going to make it even more interesting we're going to get rid of the V entirely because
you can see here you've got V is a recursive function of V so and then you've got V and then V and then
V and then V and so on.
So you can express this view through all of the following vs the most optimal vs that will come up here
we are expressing Q As a font a recursive function of V or as a function of the next V.
And then we'd have to plug in this V and then we'd get back to the V.
So what are we going to do is we're actually going to take this V and we're going to we're going to
replace it with a Q Right so let's have a look at that we're going to take this V of the next state
and we're going to plug this into that formula over here.
And as you can see it now.
So this part doesn't change this probability doesn't change but as we just discussed V of S is the maximum.
By all actions of Q of S and a right over here.
So that's what we're going to replace in here.
So we're going to say a maximum of of course is the new action the action that we're going to take because
here we've got the view of s prime.
So here now we've got the maximum across all a primes.
So the actions that we're going to take from this state or from wherever whichever other state we end
up in.
But the action that we're going to take from there and maximum across all those and the maximum is of
all of the Q values that will that are available to us in that new state as prime comma a prime.
And that's the action.
So that's the.
So there's gonna be another four Q values there.
So now as you can see let's go through that again.
So as from what we derive this word would we discussed just through logic and intuition so that we can
see that VNS are actually V of S and Q of us and a r linked the S is the maximum across all actions
of Kyogle s and you can see it right here.
So this this part is identical to this part and then we're going to leverage that and we're going to
replace this bit with VNS from here but not this exact funnel we're going to take this internal part
and we're going to replace it with Kilborn s and a.
So we're gonna plug that in here and this part is going to be Q of s prime a prime so maximal Q by cross
all a primes of q s prime a prime.
And now we have our formula.
So now we have a recursive formula for the Q value.
So now the agent can think what's the value of this action what's the quality of this action was the
Q value of this action.
Well it depends on the reward I get in the immediate step after that plus it depends on the discounted
factor times the maximum of all the possible Q actions in that state.
But I don't know if I'm going to get there so I need to also look at that state and that state and that's
why we have this expected value over here so we have some probability times the maximum that's our expected
value.
So very similar formula as you can see but this time we're expressing things through the Q values and
that's why this whole algorithm is called Kill earning because this is what is looked at this is what
the agents actually use they don't look at the states they look at their possible actions and then based
on the actions on the Q values of actions they will decide which action to take.
So they'll just look at the maximum Q value in this given state it has four actions.
What is the best action to take so you can compare sort of comparing the different states it can end
up end up in is going to compare the possible actions that it currently has then by finding the optimal
one is going to take that action and then it is going to repeat that process repeat that process and
so on.
So now you can see how all of this comes together how the reward the discounting factor the stochastic
market decision processes and the v values and the Q values all come together in order to give us this
one super powerful Belmont equation for Q values which we can now apply and let our agents learn how
to beat the environment.
And so that is a intuitive explanation of what's going on.
I know we went through the formulas but it is necessary because this is like our formula that we've
been going through this whole chapter and I think it's a good transition from V to Q and it illustrates
how they're linked between each other.
And if you'd like to get a bit more of a rigorous approach mathematical approach and like you see the
mathematics behind it and learn a bit more about Q values and how they work then we've got some additional
reading for you this paper is called Mark of decision processes concepts and algorithms by Martine von
Otter lo 2009.
So you've got the link here as always.
And here you can read in a bit more detail to understand all the nitty gritty behind Q values and so
on and now that we've discussed all of these things relating to the Belmont equation now we are ready
to look at something more complex such as this paper in order if if we want to get some additional information
on this in order to kind of get a deeper understanding.
But even if you don't read the newspaper already you should have a good working knowledge of what Q
learning is all about and how agents come up with the actions that they need to take in a certain environment.
So I hope you enjoyed today's tutorial and I look forward to seeing you next time.
Until then enjoy a.